# An Analysis of Kickstarter Campaigns
Performing analysis on Kickstarter data to uncover trends for analysis of performance, timing, and cost

We have been requested to perform an analysis of various Kickstarter programs / projects in order to determine how they have performed in relation to their category, timing, and cost basis.  Analysis was centered around campaigns in the Theater parent category and theater subcategory.   Just over 4000 individual projects were reviewed in order to come to the conclusions below.  Of these ~4000 projects, approximately 1400 were directly related to theater and ~1000 of those were in the plays subdivision. The first analysis was done to show percentage success based on launch month for all completed projects in the theater space.  The second analysis was shown as a breakdown of all plays campaigns and whether or not the Goal value impacted chance of success.

Based on this research, a few critical pieces of information can be determined and some gaps in data identified.  For the first analysis (outcome by launch date), it can be shown that there are more successes within the May / June time frame than under any other individual month.  This is possibly influenced by there being an overall larger number of overall projects in these months, but even on a percentage basis there is a notable increase (62% success rate in April to 66% in May).  It would likely be beneficial to run a similar analysis on the entire set of campaigns and not just the theater subdivision to analyze if this is consistent across the entire platform.

For the second analysis (outcomes based on goals), it is slightly more difficult to come to a set conclusion.  The analysis done compared the various target goal values and the percentage that succeeded across $5000 increments.  While there is a significant amount of data points below $25000, above that level the majority of the increments have fewer than 10 data points.  However, it is visible to see that after approximately 15000 it is significantly more difficult to have a successful project.

In summary, while we can make some high level assumptions on the best date and value to begin a Theater / Play project at, more data would be extremely valuable to expand the assessment.  First it would be best to gather more Theater / Play examples from Kickstarter.  Additionally, performing the check over multiple various categories may be able to show if some of the outcomes are consistent or unique to only this category.  Finally, I believe analyzing current performance of Live projects would be of benefit to the requester. 
